

--Uses and misuses of meta-analysis in plant ecology--


By examining effects of covariates (i.e. explanatory factors) in a meta-regression model, the causes of variation in magnitude of effects can be explored. p.3

The most commonly used metrics of effect size in plant ecology are: comparison of means (response rations and standardised mean differences (Hedge's and Cohen's d).
This means the experimental data is comparing control and and treatment. P. 6


Mostly use frequentist statistical approach and not the bayesian approach. 


checklist for meta-analysis in ecology p. 8 Table 2.


If the effect size is heterogeneous --> explore the cause of it by meta-regression (seems to be only work when having covariates)

Sensitivity analysis to the test the robustness of the meta-analysis. 



1) Weighting of effects:
Effect sizes are normally weighted by study precision, most commonly by the inverse of study variance. Important because it increases the precision of the mean effect
estimate and the power of the test. If estimates of variance in primary studies are not available, could use non-parametric weighting approaches, imputation methods
and bayesian models. 


2) Exploring the causes of heterogeneity (testing for several covariates):
Problems may arise if the covariates are tested separately as they might be linked. Therefore they can be tested in a heirarchical fashion so that effect of one 
moderator is tested within each level of another moderator. Alternatively, effects of several moderators and interactions between them can be tested in the metafor 
package in R. p. 10


3) Test for publication bias:
eg. using funnel plots (but an unaccurate method!!!)Better to use a modification of the funnel plot suggested by Nakagawa & Santos, or statistical calculations
and tests of "fail-safe numbers". Methods are incorporated in any meta-analysis software. p. 10


4) Sensititvity analysis:
p.10 at the bottom
Testing of temporal changes in effect size could be a sensitivity analysis. 

5) Accounting for phylogeny:
Only important when phylogeny plays a role in the study. Metafor has a function for phylogenetic modelling




-- Performance of statisticalmethods for meta-analysis when true study effects are non-normally distributed: A simulation study -- Kontopantelis & Reeves 2010


Recommended model to be used depending on heterogeneity and number of studies (fig. 4) p. 16.




-- Gibson et. al --

Meta-analysis methodology:

Calculated Hedge's g for each comparison (the difference between primary and the disturbed groups mean, standardized using the pooled standard
deviation of the two groups. 

Hedge's g is a biased estimator of population size, therefore they corrected it by using a conversion factor Jg. 

Average effect size calculated using random-effect model (heterogeneity in effect sizes). 

Effect sizes were weighted by the inverse of within-study variance plus between-study variance.

Did some robustness testing? (leaving out some comparisons)

Tested for publication bias --> using a funnel plot (effect size plotted against SE) to assess the symmetry of study precision around effect size.
                            --> sorted the data by precision (from comparisons with small SE to bigger ones and examined the change in cummulative effect size)


Appendix:

Effect sizes in a table
Funnel plot
Cummulative meta-analysis (publication bias test)




-- Predicting biodiversity change and averting collapse in agricultural landscapes (Mendenhall et. al 2014)-- 

Meta-analysis methodology:

Calculated Hedge`s g


-----

Test of heterogeneity in R meta package. 




In R:


rma is the main modelling function in metafor. It will compute effective sizes before modelling. (random effects meta-analysis)



