Task given:

Meta-Analysis

Meta-analyses combine outcomes of different studies, 
thereby attempting to generalise findings.
The robustness depends on homogeneity of results; 
sample size; number of studies; publication bias; ...

1.Implement a diagnostic report for meta-analyses 
2.Implement robustness tests (removing small studies) 
3.Turn into a (set of) R-function(s).

-------------------------------------------

Work so far:

We've mainly looked at two sources so far to get an overview of what a meta analysis is 
and what it should contain. These are "Tutorial on meta analysis in R" by 
Stephanie Kovalchik and "Meta-analysis: A need for well-defined usage in ecology 
and conservation biology" by Vetter et. al.


In general for this analysis
use the meta and/or metafor packages
target the automatic document towards environmental sciences
we will probably choose one type of analysis, for example linear models, with a continuos
response variable and mostly continuos predictor variables.


1. Diagnostic reports

descriptive statistics on effect sizes using metafor-package, and the escalc command, 
or the rma command (which is a wrapper for escalc)

We can choose between fixed effect models, random effects model or mixed effect model 
(Meta regression)
from Kovalchik: 
· "The FE model is a description of the K studies.
· The RE model regards the K studies as a sample of a larger
universe of studies.
· The RE model can be used to infer what would likely happen if a
new study were performed, the FE model cannot.
· Common practice is to report both fixed and random effects model results." p52

Maybe do an analysis (for fixed effects model) on study contributions (p67, Kovalchik)
1. Determine the percentage each study contributed to the overall effect size summary.
2. Which study contributes the most? How much?
3. Use a barplot to show the percentages graphically.

Between-Study Variance for the random effect model. Use of REML function and Plot 
Of τ 2 Estimates (p.85)	

Use forest plots and perhaps funnel plots to visualize. 

case diagnostics: 
 A single outlying trial could be the source of substantial heterogeneity.
· To identify suspicious cases, a leave-one-out method can be used whereby we rerun the
meta-analysis, iteratively removing studies.
· In the metafor package this is accomplished with the leave1out function. p. 135

`The File-Drawer' Problem
· It is possible that studies showing a significant intervention effect are more often
 published than studies with null results.
· When a meta-analysis is based only on studies reported in the literature, 
null studies relegated to the file-drawer could bias the summary intervention 
effect in the direction of efficacy. p151 
here we can use funnel plots (p152)
various methods for publication bias. 
sensitivity analysis with 
- Trim-and-Fill - FailSafeN


Carsten:
need to understand better which type of meta analysis to use
1. kind of data you analyze.  lead to effect size.  Hedges D is widely use as effect size.
2. model: in principle only forest plot. 
3. can have more/different predictors. 

start with simple analysis: effect size, forest plot, perhaps funnel plot.

read:
«uses and misuses of meta-analysis in plant ecology». 2014. Koricheva, Gurewitch
Vetter et al.
