

Things to consider:

- Heterogeneity in effect sizes is important as well as presenting the results in forest plots.

- Meta-analysis allows us to calculate the magnitude rather than the existence of an effect. Plus, it offers formal methods
to explore and measure heterogeneity.

- If heterogeneity is high, the pressentation of a summary effect might be inadequate. 

- Forest plot should include: summary effect, individual effect sizes and their CI, weighting of each study.


- If we will only use the packages "meta" and "metafor", we could split it up and do for each package the same analysis. What are the differences? 

- When doing the task, the outcome of each analysis has to be diagnosed. Which part is important information for the meta-analysis? And if the important information
is significant, does another analysis have to follow?


- Baujat plot to explore the heterogeneity. 


To do:

Actually do a meta-analysis with some data. First do a simple analysis, with all the steps and can mix and match from all packages. The outcome are then effect
sizes. Forest plots for the summary and then funnel plot (...) to visualize


Make a report for appendix of a paper. Only for the diagnostics and the plots part... 




Seven steps of a meta-analysis:

(1) generating an effect size metric based on
continuous data, binary data or correla-
tions

(2) weighting effect sizes by sample size or precision

(3) pooling of effect sizes into a summary, effect or reasoning against pooling (e.g.,due to high variation 
between effect sizes)

(4) calculating confidence intervals for each effect size and the summary effect

(5) quantifying total heterogeneity/variability (i.e., not only between group heterogeneity) in effect sizes 
by an index measure

(6) if heterogeneity is existent: exploring heterogeneity/variability in effect sizes by considering explanatory
variables (e.g., insubgroup analyses or meta-regressions) 

(With the sexpr. expression, when data is inputed and the heterogeneity is high--> heterogeneity is explored with a function, if not high, the analysis stops here??)


(7) presenting results in forest plots or providing respective data (effect sizes, corresponding confidence 
intervals and weights for all included studies) elsewhere (e.g., in a table).